Initial Solana Migration and Usage Documentation (#1073)
helium/docs: docs/oracles/data-transfer-oracles.mdx

---
id: data-transfer-oracles
title: Data Transfer Oracles
pagination_label: Data Transfer Oracles
sidebar_label: Data Transfer Oracles
description: Helium Data Transfer Oracles Documentation
image: https://i.imgur.com/bWAbESE.png
slug: /oracles/data-transfer-oracles
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

:::warning 🚧 This document is a work in progress. 🚧

The documentation on Solana and the upcoming Migration is under development and subject to change.

:::

Moving the entire data transfer logic off-chain will increase scalability and reduce points of
failure.

> ## Lorawan Network Server Streamlining

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## LoRaWAN Network Server Streamlining
```

On the Helium L1, being a LoRaWAN Network Server (LNS) on the Helium Network requires running the
router, [state channels](/blockchain/packet-purchasing/#state-channels), and the Helium chain, a
significant hurdle for non-blockchain native LNS configurations.

> On the Solana L1, the LNS will have a much-reduced role. After purchasing their Organizationally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Solana L1, the LNS will have a focused role. After purchasing their Organizationally
```
